Document ESB vs Spring Integration (#11010)
spring-projects/spring-integration: src/reference/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/overview.adoc

For developers familiar with traditional Enterprise Integration architectures, it is helpful to distinguish Spring Integration design philosophy from that of a centralized Enterprise Service Bus (ESB) such as Mule ESB, TIBCO, or BizTalk.

==== Centralized ESB Topology (Bus-Centric)

Traditional https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enterprise_service_bus[ESB solutions] typically rely on a centralized, heavy runtime infrastructure.
In this model:

* *Centralized Runtime*: integration routes, transformations, and orchestrations are deployed into a dedicated, standalone server or cluster managed independently of the consuming business applications;
* *Hub-and-Spoke*: applications connect as `spokes` to the central `hub`;
* *Operational Overhead*: managing, patching, and scaling the separate integration bus infrastructure creates significant operational complexity;
* *Potential Bottleneck*: the centralized bus can become both a runtime performance bottleneck and an organizational single point of failure.

==== Spring Integration Topology (Application-Centric)

Spring Integration takes an application-centric and embedded approach to Enterprise Integration Patterns:

> * *No Dedicated Integration Server*: Spring Integration is completely lightweight.

Reviewer: We can remove the word "completely".

Author: Not sure why.
That is really the point to diverge from ESB 🤷

> Its components (channels, endpoints, transformers) live directly within the `ApplicationContext` as standard Spring beans.

Reviewer: WDYT
Its components (channels, endpoints, transformers) live directly within the `ApplicationContext` **of the application** as standard Spring beans.

Author: Sounds like tautology and the `ApplicationContext` really assumes the target application.

There is no external server or broker platform to administer or configure specifically for the framework itself;
* *Decentralized and Distributed*: integration logic scales naturally alongside your application instances.
Whether the  deployment is a monolithic system or a set of distributed cloud-native microservices, the integration rules are packaged and executed in-process;
* *POJO-Based Programming Model*: rather than forcing developers into proprietary graphical tooling, heavy SDKs, or complex vendor-specific XML formats, Spring Integration promotes standard POJOs.
If a custom protocol or transformation is required, it can be implemented with a simple Java method invocation or a custom bean, making the framework exceptionally easy to extend and unit-test;
* *Simplicity & Testability*: since everything is "just Spring beans," integration flows can be fully unit-tested using standard Spring test utilities without spinning up a massive integration container environment.

==== Alignment with Modern Microservices

> Because it runs embedded within the application classpath, Spring Integration is an ideal fit for modern, cloud-native architectures.

Reviewer: WDYT?
Because it runs embedded within the application classpath, Spring Integration is an ideal fit for both traditional on-premises deployments and cloud-native architectures.

Author: ```suggestion
Because it runs embedded within the application classpath, Spring Integration is an ideal fit for both traditional on-premises deployments and cloud-native architectures.
```
